In this chapter we are going to talk about tree based algorithms focusing on decision trees.
So what are decision trees.
It is a type of supervised learning approach.
It is mostly used in classification problems but it can be used for regression as well.
What's extremely important.
And basically this is why we like decision trees because it works fine for both categorical variables
and continuous input as well.
What does it mean when we were dealing with credit scoring.
We had a data set like this with income age loan loan to income ratio.
These are the features.
And as we can see these are continuous imports in the sense that these are American values of 59 0 1
48 2 1 1 and so 1 So these are not Marichal they'll use OK but decision trees can handle categorical
variables as well.
What does it mean exactly.
For example when dealing with a data set like this as you can see these values are not numerical values.
We have four features outlook temperature humidity and wind.
And we have a single target Merali about whether we are going to play golf or not.
And as we can see these are not numerical values.
Sunny overcast or rainy as far as Outlook is concerned though when it can be true or false the weather
is when they or not.
So these are not numerical values but categorical variables instead.
And basically this is the most important when the age of decision is that it can handle both of these
variables.
OK.
It is very very similar to search trees.
So if you are familiar with the binary search the data structure it is very very similar.
A given decision tree has the root node.
It can have two or more children.
So these are the child nodes.
And of course it's going to have several leaf nodes.
So it is very similar to a search tree.
And we just have to split the data or the population of basically the original data set into two or
more homogenous sets based on significant splitter in the input variables.
We are going to talk a lot more about this issue in the coming lectures.
OK so let's consider a concrete example.
We have a single feature X for example the number of Arbor's a students band with studying.
And we want to predicate the Y probability of passing the exam.
So we have a single feature X and we have a target variable while OK in this case the decision tree
is rodders simple.
We have a root node.
We have to split on the X feature.
Of course we don't have any other features.
So we have just a single feature.
The number of hours the students band with studying and if it is smaller than 5 then the student will
fail if it is greater than five.
So if the students span more than five hours with studying it means that he or she will pass the exam.
So it is a very very simple decision tree as we can see the nodes represent the features.
In this case we split on the X of arrival where X is the number of hours and we have two options whether
the students fail the exam or whether the students pass the exam.
Why.
Because the why target bribable can have to they'll use fail or pass.
OK so there's a single root node associated with every single decision tree.
It represents the entire dataset or the population and this data that further gets divided into several
subsets.
OK what's extremely important and this is why we have to talk about Shannon entropy because the root
node corresponds to the best predictor.
So we have to find the most relevant feature and we are going to split the decision tree based on the
most relevant predicate or or feature the predictor is the same as a feature.
OK so we have a root node.
We have leaf nodes.
As you can see a leaf node doesn't have any children at all.
So leaf nodes with no children their values are what we are after.
So the values of the leaf nodes are going to be the target variable.
This is what we have been talking about here that we have the target Barrayar bill or why or whether
the student has paused the exam or failed the exam.
We have the root node in this case because we just have a single x predictor feature.
That's why this decision tree it's going to be very small.
It has a single root node which two branches and two leaf nodes accordingly.
But as you can see the leaf nodes represent D-y target triable as fail or postes.
OK so we can say that the leaf nodes of values are what we are after.
Basically the target variables and we have decision nodes.
As you can see for example this blue note.
It is not the root node and it is not a leaf node because it has further children.
OK so for a decision node the algorithm splits the node into sub nodes based on given features in the
data set.
So again every single split is based on features.
And the most relevant question is how to decide what nodes so what features are important.
So for example what's going to be the root node.
What feature is the most important one.
And what are the nodes and the features.
That's not that important.
So what should be the root node.
Basically this is why we have to deal with information theory entropy and information again in order
to understand how to deconstruct the decision tree.
OK we understand that.
Why is it good.
We have a root node.
We have leaf nodes and basically these leaf nodes are what we are after these leaf nodes are the values
of the target variable.
Fail or Porth for our example OK or for example when we are dealing with credit scoring we have 0 and
1 0 when the client is not able to pay back the loan want if the client is able to pay back the loan.
So the decision tree leafs are going to be the target variable.
We just have to define what are the important features and how to construct the decision tree what is
going to be the root node.
What's going to be decision nodes and so on.
Okay so a decision to reclassify or accuracy depends heavily on escalates.
So how do we construct the tree like structure.
What features are more important what features are less important and so on.
So there are several algorithms for this problem such as calculating a given index calculating the information
entropy.
This is what we are going to talk about because this is the most common approach ID 3 or see 4 or 5
algorithms rely heavily on Shannon entropy and information again or we can solve the same problem with
algorithms based on variance reduction.
We are not going to talk about variance reduction in the next lecture we are going to talk about entropy.
Thanks for watching.